# Playtest #1

Wed 16 May 2018

Participants: self, AdamB, SverreR, JeffB

[Playtest #1 Comment Thread](https://github.com/garykac/woven/issues/1)

## Components

* 9x11 hex board (8.5x11 w/ ~1in hexes) - No terrain
* 28 matrix cards
* 8 spell cards (patterns only, no spells)
* Token for player
* Token to mark player's target
* Tokens for objects owned by the player
* Tokens to mark locations controlled by player

## Setup

* Shared pool of dice
* Deck of matrix cards
* Deck of spell cards with 4 revealed

## Rules

Each turn, do one of the following:

* Draw matrix card, place onto matrix.
Collect dice equal to the number of boxes covered by the newly placed card. Take dice from shared pool and add to local pool.

* Place dice from your local pool onto squares on matrix. Each die must be orthogonally adjacent to
the previous die placed. You may place as many dice as possible this way.

* Cast spell. Dice must already be in place in your matrix and match a spell pattern in the set
of available spells or one that you already have.

	* If you cast an available spell, then claim it
	as your own. No one else may cast that spell.

## Starter Spell

### Target
```
X Y
```
Distance: X+Y

Place your target token

## Comments

Focused on testing the matrix cards.

No spells, so people made up "reasonable" spells once they initially cast the
spell pattern.

Patterns on the sample spells were easy since they involved a small number of squares
and didn't have any constraints.

Patterns on spells were unclear in that it was not obvious that the dots on the cards meant that the space needed to be kept blank. This made it much easier to cast since that constraint was removed. One suggestion was to use an "x" on the matrix and spell cards so that it is obvious that they need to match. Suggestion modified to have elemental symbols instead.

Spell cards could have holes cut into them to remove a square. This would allow the an overlaid card to have symbols from a lower card show through.

Damage to mage = lost dice from local pool or from matrix cards. The dice pool acts as hit points (concentration points) for the player.

## Actions

Add Element contraints to the blank spaces on the Matrix cards. Add these Elements
to the spells so that it is clear that these need to be matched.

Add dice constraints to the matrix cards with lots of boxes (like the 5 and 6 cards).

Add abilities:

* Allow dice to be re-arranged on cards
* Allow dice to be placed ignoring constraints

Consider possible new spells:

* Re-roll dice
* Transmute elements
* Push target - dist = X-Y
* Trap - triggered when visited
* Duplicate previous spell

Consider possible options for turn actions:

* Adjust/remove target
* Move mage
* Draw card
* Manipulate dice

## Spell Patterns

A random assortment of patterns used for the playtest.

Dots were originally intended to be spaces that needed
to be completely empty (no square at that location - 
not even an empty one).

However, this was not clear so we relaxed that constraint. After this playtest, we changed those spaces to `X` and later to element symbols.

```
  . O
O O .
```

```
O O . O
  . O
```

```
O O .
O . O
O
```

```
  .
. O .
  .
```

```
    O
O O .
    O
```

```
    O
  O .
O   O
```

```
  O
O . O
  O
```

```
      O
O . O
. O .
O . O
```

```
O . O
O O .
O
```

```
  O
O . O
O . O
```

```
  .
O O
  .
```

```
O .
. O
```

```
    .
O O O
  .
```

## Spells Created

As mentioned earlier, since we didn't have spells made beforehand (we only had patterns), during this game playtesters created spells on the fly as they cast the spells.

* Force Push - Move target player up to x spaces away from you
* Summon - Create a double pawn at your target
* Amnesia - Target loses x dice
* Shield
* Haste - Target moves x spaces.
* Teleport
