# Playtest #6

Mon 11 June 2018

Participants: self, AdamB

## Overview

* Short 15-min game, cut short when Jeff arrived so we could start playtest #7.
* 5 card draft; 11 mana

## Components

* [22x19 hex board](../img/playtest_5_map.jpg)
* 33 (double-sided) matrix cards
* [62 Spell Cards](https://github.com/garykac/woven/blob/f2743b683b00ca5a000598de3b97b540213e08ed/components/spell_card_data.py)
* Token for each player
* 11 Mana disks

## Setup

* Deck of double-sided tapestry cards with top card revealed
* All basic spell cards in shared area
* Players draft 5 spells

## Rules

Each turn, do each of the following:

* Remove a spell die from Tapestry (if possible)
* Spend mana from Mana Pool

### Spending Mana

* 1 mana - move 1 space into field
* 2 mana - move 1 space into forest
* 3 mana - move 1 space into mountain
* 1 mana place as TENDRIL on your location on MAP
* 1 mana place as THREAD on TAPESTRY and cast spell if possible
* 2 AP - draw first Tapestry card
* 3 AP - draw second Tapestry card

### Drawing and Adding to Matrix

Take the top Tapestry card and set it aside.

At the end of your turn, add it to your Tapestry.
Any Threads that are covered by the new card
are removed from the Tapestry and added back into
your Mana Pool.

### Casting Spells

Take the specified number of disks from your Mana Pool and add them one at a time as Threads to your Tapestry

After each Thread is placed in the Tapestry, if that Thread completes a
spell fragment pattern, then that spell fragment
is cast and its effect happens immediately.

If multiple spell patterns are matched, you must choose one.

### Damage

Mages die when they take a single point of damage. They are sent to the Astral plane and must teleport back to the world. All Tendrils, Threads and Charges are removed and added back to the mage's Mana Pool.

## Scenario

1-on-1 battle.

## Comments

The initial Tapestry card can be placed (choosing a side) after the draft is done.

Who goes first? Based the starting location star (numbered 1-5)

Secret home location:

* Players start in the Astral Plane
* Starting location is not revealed until the teleport onto the map
* Starting location card could have a starting spell appropriate for that location.

## Suggestions/Actions

For next playtest:

* Create cards to randomly assign starting location.
