# Playtest #11

Thu 21 June 2018

Participants: self, SverreR, JeffB, AdamB

## Overview

* Testing:
	* Place Tapestry Card immediately after purchase
	* Death: Lose all Tendrils, Charges and Tapestry card when killed
	* No astral plane. Start immediately on start location.
* Two teams: Sverre & Adam vs. Jeff & self
	* Gary/Jeff: 2
	* Sverre/Adam: 0
* Death:
	* Losing Tapestry felt really bad.
	* Too easy to camp at spawn location after killing someone and then they have no hope of reovering.

## Components

* [22x19 hex board](../img/playtest_5_map.jpg)
* 33 (double-sided) matrix cards
* 36 Spell Cards
* Token for each player
* 13 Mana disks

## Setup

* Deck of double-sided tapestry cards with top card revealed
* Players draft 7 spells

## Rules

Each turn do one action:

* Cast a spell (using as much mana as needed to complete a single spell)
* Buy a Tapestry Card for 3 mana
* Rest to recover 1 Thread from Tapestry and place any Tapestry cards
* Move (1=Plains, 2=Forest, 3=Mountain)
* Pay 1 mana to place a TENDRIL at current location

## Scenario

Death match - gain VP for each kill.

## Comments

Halfway through game, adjusted some spells to give another turn:

* If spell adds a tendril, then it also grants another turn. (This is clearly not balanced, but it works for the playtest. Not added for some powerful "add tendril" spells.)

Clarify: tendrils must come from mana pool, not spent pool or the thread used to cast the spell.

Spell comments:

* "Quick Drop" is the "best cards" (perhaps OP)
   * Note: [typo in card pattern](https://github.com/garykac/blockchain/commit/c0d3d28c9c9f629328521caf533ce28b65b1ac97)
* "Barrier" could be changed to prevent movement into adjacent locations
* "Nudge" at beginning of turn, move 1 adjacent tendril for each charge.

Rules: be explicit with "may" and "up to X": In rulebook, be explicit so that the text on the spell cards can be brief.

## Suggestions/Actions

For next playtest:

* Add ability to "take another action"
* Add more spells that attack tendrils
* Tweak card patterns on spells
* Add better Artifact cards
	* With only a special ability
* Smaller map
	* Use voronoi tesselation instead of hexes
