# Playtest #3

Fri 25 May 2018

Participants: self, AdamB, SverreR, JeffB

## Components

* 21x17 hex board
* 70 matrix cards
* 8 (element) + 3 (neutral) spell cards
* Token for each player
* 2 Tokens/player to mark target
* Tokens for marking locations controlled by player
* 8 Dice for each player

## Setup

* Deck of matrix cards with top 2 revealed
* All spell cards in shared area

## Rules

Each turn, do each of the following:

* Remove a spell die from Matrix (if possible)
* Spend up to 3 Action Points (APs)

### Action Points

* 1 AP - move 2 spaces along road
* 1 AP - move 1 space into field
* 2 AP - move 1 space into forest
* 3 AP - move 1 space into mountain
* 2 AP - draw matrix card and add to matrix
* 3 AP - take 6 dice and cast spells

### Drawing and Adding to Matrix

Choose one of the available Matrix cards and add to
Matrix. And dice that are covered by the new card
are removed from the Matrix and added back into
your pool.

### Casting Spells

Take up to 6 dice from your pool and add them one at
a time to the Matrix.

After each die is place, if that die completes a
spell fragment pattern, then that spell fragment
is cast and its effect happens immediately.

If multiple spell patterns are matched, the player
must choose one.

## Damage

Mages die when they take a single point of damage. They are sent back to their home location.

## Starter Spells

Available to all players.

### Target
```
X .
. X
```
Element: None

Move a target one space in any direction.

### Reset Target
```
X
```
Element: None

Move target to caster's current location.

### Return
```
 X X
```

P-Attack: 0

Teleport to home location.

### Haste
```
@ X
```
Element: Air

P-Attack: 0

Gain 2 AP for normal movement

### Push
```
@ X
```
Element: Water

P-Attack: 1

Push target into neighboring space.

### Control
```
@ X
```
Element: Fire

Place control marker on current location.

### Shield
```
@ X
```
Element: Earth

M-Defense = 1

Persistant: Place charge marker when cast

### Levitate
```
@ .
. X
```
Element: Air

P-Attack: 0

Move target one space. Ignore terrain cost.

### Anchor
```
. X
@ .
```
Element: Mountain

P-Defense: 1

Protect against magical movement spells.

Persistant: Place charge marker when cast

### Dodge
```
. X
@ .
```
Element: Water

P-Defense: 1

M-Defense: 1

Persistant: Place charge marker when cast

### Fire Spurt
```
. X
@ .
```
Element: Fire

M-Attack: 1

Attack target

## Comments

What should be done with leftover APs? It doesn't feel
good to have them leftover with nothing to do with them.

Not being able to cast again until all the dice
have been cleared from the previous spell-casting
doesn't feel good. Should players be able to just
cast again?

* Are there problems with large spells being cast
repeatedly by just removing/adding 1 die? If we
don't have large spells, is this a problem?

Just use cubes instead of dice since they don't seem
to be necessary (they're not holding their weight in
component and rules cost).

Sverre:

* POS Like tradeoff between physical move and magical move
* POS Like the puzzle of building a tight/efficient matrix
* NEG Dislikes the 6-box cards with no symbols. Not useful.
* NEG Not being able to cycle the top cards in the 
Matrix deck. Don't want to spend 2AP for a bad card.

Jeff:

* POS Liked symbols being associated with different tyeps of actions
* POS Liked combo move actions (split between physical/magical move)
* NEG No way to interrupt others. Racing to combo spots.
* NEG Pushing people - too hard to target/push
* Could possibly have Matrix cards with multiple elements on the same spot

Adam:

* POS Great puzzle. Likes AP to spend distribute
* POS Movement on map is interesting
* NEG Spell casting always requires 3 AP. Bad for small spells
* NEG Only spells I cared about were movement
* Haste is amazing, Levigate is good
* Killing send back to Home location is not enough of a punishment
* Targeting is hard

[J] Spell: Warp to target
[J] Spell: Swap place with target

We had 12 dice, but we didn't use more than 6during this game.

Numer of cards in matrix at end of game:

* AB: 5
* JB: 4
* SR: 6
* GK: 4

[J] Dominion style have a set of additional spells chosen from a larger set so that each game is different

[S] Have an event trigger something that changes the available spells. e.g., when control of a location changes

[A] Cast the control spell multiple times for more control.

[A,S] Remove roads connecting to home space since that made being sent home not as much of a punishment. Add more texture to the map.

[A] The 5 basic actions could be:

* Target
* Move
* Charge Attack
* Charge Defense
* Damage/Control

[S] Spell: Dispel

[A] Basic spells:

* Neutral - move target 1 space
* Air - Haste
* Fire - Damage 1 pt
* Earth - Hold in place/Entangle
* Water - Defense

[A] +5 more fancy spelle

At end of turn, for current space, do one of the following:

* Remove a control marker of another player
* Take control by adding marker (if no one has control)
* Add control marker (if you already have control)

Returning target marker to self should be free

[S] Spells: that have 2 symbols or a wildcard "any" symbol that can be used with any element

### Thoughts on advanced spells

For more powerful versions of spells that combine patterns, the larger spell should be a bonus on top of the basic spells (which have already been played)

E.g., given a simple spell which gives 1 pt (of something).

```
@ X
```

Which can be rotated and repeated 4 times to get 4 points:

```
. X .
X @ X
. X .
```

If there is a larger spell with this 4 pattern, the effect of the large spell should assume that the basic
parts have already been gained. In this case, that would be 3 points (3 small spells x 1 pt/each) already gained so then the final spell gives 3 points on top of that.

So a player (A) with only the basic spell would get 4 points while a player (B) with the basic + advanced spell would get 6.

If these players removed and then added a single spell die, player A would get 1 pt (since they only complete a basic spell) while player B gets 3 (since they completed an advanced spell.

## Suggestions/Actions

For next playtest:

* Remove the 6-block matrix cards
* Ability to cast smaller spells:
	* 1 AP to cast with 1 die
	* 2 AP to cast with 3 die
	* 3 AP to cast with 6 die
* Use only 6 spell dice per player
* 3 stacks of matrix cards
* Don't have to remove all dice from matrix before casting next spell
