# Playtest #2

Tue 22 May 2018

Participants: self, AdamB, SverreR, JeffB JoshO'M

## Components

* Small hex board
* 70 matrix cards
* 100 spell cards (25 spells with variants for each of the 4 Elements)
* Token for player
* Token to mark player's target

Note we needed more tokens to represent the different things being tracked on the board.

## Setup

* Shared pool of dice
* Deck of matrix cards
* Deck of spell cards with 5 revealed

## Rules

Each turn, do one of the following:

* Draw matrix card, place onto matrix.
Collect dice equal to the number of boxes covered by the newly placed card.

* Place dice onto squares on matrix. Each die must be orthogonally adjacent to
the previous die placed. You may place as many dice as possible this way.

* Cast spell. Dice must be in place in your matrix and match a spell in the set
of available spells or one that you already have.

## Comments

Initial layout of 5 available cards had 2 duplicated spells. This didn't feel good
for player choice.
Players wanted more variation in the spells available at any time.

Need short simple spells - spells were too complex. Too many squares on the spells. This was partially due to a mistake
where I forgot to account for the Element on the spell so there (Effectively) were no
3-block spells, only 2-, 4- and 5-block spells

POS - Liked symbols on cards

POS - Liked building the patterns

NEG - Didn't like how long it took to build patterns

At one point, players wanted to make more spells available, so a mechanism was added to refresh the set of available spells. Since it takes many turns to build up to get a spell, this basically randomized anyone who was working toward a spell that was just discarded.

Because of the dice constraints, there were times when players just wanted dice and not cards. This didn't feel good. Perhaps remove card from matrix to get dice?

Need spells to Push or Move other players.

Instead of always using "A" and "B" for spell parameters, there should be a consistent set of letters used that is constant across spells: "A" to boost attack strength, "D" to boost defense. Or use "m"s in the squares where the player should take the min value instead of having "min(A,B)" in the description.

"I want teleport" and 25% of the cards should be movement cards.

Players want to be able to cast the spells immediately.

Have a tech tree for the spells?

## Suggestions/Actions

Consider separating spells into three rows of available spells: simple medium complex

Need lots of movement spells (25%-40%)

The spells should be simple and focus on a single attribute: strength, defense, move, create x

Change spellcasting so that spells are built quickly but take time to tear down. This 
feels better for a first-time player experience and fits with the theme as the 
exhausted mage needs time to recover.

Can players start with more useful spells?

Reverse dice placement: Instead of:

* slowly place dice over many turns
* cast spell on separate turn, clear dice immediately

change to:

* during 1 turn, place dice all at once and cast spell immediately
* dice stay in place and need to be removed slowly (mage recovery from the effort of casting)

Show the top cards of the matrix deck so that it's easier for players to make that decision.

* Perhaps a market of 2 or 3 matrix cards

60% of all cards should be directly useful

Have the upgrade cards be more general

Next playtest:

* Test with only simple spells (movement, attack, defense)
* Define simple spell = can (theoretically) be cast on a single matrix card
* 