# Playtest #8

Wed 20 June 2018

Participants: self, AdamB, SverreR

## Overview

* Testing:
	* Lose all Tendrils, Charges and Tapestry card when killed
* Last minute changes to setup:
	* Remove all basic cards except Teleport Home and Drop Tendril on Current location (mod from "Creep")
		* This kinda breaks the game since the remaining cards assume that there are the 4 basics available. But let's see what happens.
	* Use micro-turns: On each turn, players perform 1 action instead of playing as much mana as possible.
* Score:
   * Sverre: 6
   * Adam: 2
   * Gary: 4
* Game stopped early because most players unable to attack. Destroy tendril next to tendril + move tendril to another mountain combo was dominant
* Number of Tapestry cards used: 4-5 per player

## Components

* [22x19 hex board](../img/playtest_5_map.jpg)
* 33 (double-sided) matrix cards
* [62 Spell Cards](https://github.com/garykac/blockchain/blob/f2743b683b00ca5a000598de3b97b540213e08ed/components/spell_card_data.py)
* Token for each player
* 11 Mana disks

## Setup

* Deck of double-sided tapestry cards with top card revealed
* All basic spell cards in shared area
* Players draft 7 spells

## Rules

Each turn, has a number of rounds.

Each round do one action:

* Cast a spell (using as much mana as needed to complete a single spell)
* Buy a Tapestry Card for 3 mana
* Pass
* Move (1=Plains, 2=Forest, 3=Mountain)

When you Pass, you recover 1 Mana from your Tapestry and may place any Tapestry Cards you acquired.

Once all players Pass, the turn ends and everyone recovers their spent mana.

## Scenario

Control (have a TENDRIL on) cities. Score a point at the end of your turn for each city that you have a TENDRIL on. First up to 15 wins.

## Comments

Note:

NEG Draft pool is too big. So it's possible that very few attack cards are in the mix (as in this game).

POS Liked having the interleaved small actions

NEG Can't do "monster" turns with big effects

All cards should have some basic action. Multiple effects on the card so that if one doesn't apply, the other is still avail.

* E.g.: Shield + Tendril Creep

Possibly have different spell decks:

* One for each different type of spell
* One for basic and another for advanced

Focus on the 2-player game and optimize that. Then expand for more than 2.

Have fewer cards in the draft pool.

More basic attack cards.

Spells:

* Use charges to move
* Have lots of overlap between spells (but not the same)
* Perhaps have some spells give another action (like in Dominion)

Adam:

* Fire (/Air)
	- Blast damage.
	- [+Air] Damage + move.
	- [+Hate] Tendril destruction.

* Air (/Water)
	- Movement + haste.
	- [+Water] Move + singular tendril control.
	- [+Hate] Charge removal.

* Water (/Earth)
	- Mass tendril control.
	- [+Earth] Mass tendrils + tendrils as shields.
	- [+Hate] Redirect / reflect damage.

* Earth (/Fire)
	- Shields.
	- [+Fire] Shields that damage nearby.
	- [+Hate] Lock down, movement punish.

* For air:
* Air (/Water, Tendrils: one quick permanent)
	- Movement + haste.
		- Swap positions with one of your tendrils.
		- Charge. While charged, whenever you cast a spell, move into an adjacent area.
		- Move into an adjacent area. Take another action.
		- Charge. While charged, all areas are plains for the purpose of your movement.
	- [+Water] Move + singular tendril control.
		- Move into an adjacent area. Move one of your tendrils two areas.
		- Move one of your tendrils three areas.
		- Place a tendril within three areas of your location.
	- [+Hate] Charge removal.
		- At one of your tendrils: each player takes damage equal to the number of charges they maintain.
		- At one of your tendrils: each player loses a charge or takes a damage.

* For fire:
* Fire (/Air, Tendrils: one quick consumed)
	- Blast damage.
		- Consume a tendril to deal one damage to each player in its area.
		- Consume a tendril to deal one damage to each player in or adjacent to its area.
		- Consume a tendril. Deal one damage to each player in its area, then place a tendril in an adjacent area and take another action.
		- Consume a tendril to deal one damage to each player in its area. Take another action.
	- [+Air] Damage + move.
		- Damage everyone in an adjacent area, then move into it.
		- Damage everyone in an adjacent area, then move adjacent to that area.
		- Place a tendril in an adjacent area, then take another action.
	- [+Hate] Tendril destruction.
		- Destroy all tendrils in your area.
		- Destroy one tendril in each area adjacent to you.

* For water:
* Water (/Earth)
	- Mass tendril control.
		- Spawn a tendril. Move all your tendrils into adjacent areas.
		- Spawn a tendril. Move all your tendrils into adjacent areas. Take another action.
		- Spawn a tendril in each area adjacent to you.
		- Spawn any number of tendrils. Take another action.
	- [+Earth] Mass tendrils + tendrils as shields.
		- Charge. While charged, you may sacrifice a tendril to absorb 1 damage.
		- Charge. While charged, your tendrils take damage (and are destroyed) instead of you.
		- If astral, teleport to a tendril and sacrifice it. Otherwise, charge. Discharge to teleport to astral.
	- [+Hate] Redirect / reflect damage.
		- Charge. Discharge and sacrifice a tendril when you take damage to redirect that damage to that tendril.
		- Charge. Discharge and sacrifice all your tendrils you take damage to redirect that damage to those tendrils.

## Suggestions/Actions

For next playtest:

* Change turns/rounds to simple turns:
	* You can Pass and jump back in next turn - no need to wait until all players Pass
* Smaller set of spells (~36 = 9/element) so that drafting is easier.
