# Playtest #9

Thu 21 June 2018

Participants: self, JoshO'M, JeffB, SverreR

Additional comments from RobinS

## Overview

* Testing:
	* New spell cards
	* 13 mana per player
	* Death: Lose all Tendrils, Charges and Tapestry card when killed
	* No astral plane.
* Score:
   * Josh: 7
   * Sverre: 9
   * Jeff: 14 (win by controlling all 4 cities)
   * Gary: 3
* Number of Tapestry cards used:
	* Josh: 1
	* Sverre: 4
	* Jeff: 5
	* Gary: 4

## Components

* [22x19 hex board](../img/playtest_5_map.jpg)
* 33 (double-sided) matrix cards
* 36 Spell Cards
* Token for each player
* 13 Mana disks

## Setup

* Deck of double-sided tapestry cards with top card revealed
* Players draft 7 spells

## Rules

Each turn do one action:

* Cast a spell (using as much mana as needed to complete a single spell)
* Buy a Tapestry Card for 3 mana
* Rest to recover 1 Thread from Tapestry and place any Tapestry cards
* Move (1=Plains, 2=Forest, 3=Mountain)
* Pay 1 mana to place a TENDRIL at current location

## Scenario

Control (have a TENDRIL on) cities. Score a point at the end of your turn for each city that you have a TENDRIL on. First up to 15 wins.

## Comments

Place used mana on the start card to keep it separate from available mana

Need more Tendril attack spells. Current deck only has 3 spells.

Map is too big: takes too long to get to each other

Josh decided to try to break the game by not using spells and just walking on the map to the nearest city, placing a Tendril and staying there.

Need ability to move tendril onto another player and attack.

Jeff:

* POS - small turns work well. don't mind not having big turns
* POS - Like not having default spells avail
* POS - Like having elements focus on a particular style of spell. Encourages focus on elements. Makes it important to set up the tapestry correctly.
* NEG - Not enough ways to cancel tendrils.

Josh:

* POS - Like hex map vs squares on tapestry cards. kept them separate in mind.
* NEG - Maybe smaller draft, 5 cards
* NEG - Map too big

Sverre:

* NEG - movement - not all balanced. some are too powerful
* NEG - needs solution to relying on players to stop a clear winner
	* (although Jeff says: cf. Innovation)

Alternate ways to score points in the city spaces:

* First to get to city needs to drop 1 tendril to score; second needs 2, ...
* (from RobinS:) VPs only go to the player with the most tendrils on the location. no points awarded for ties.
* Token to track who got to each city first. Benefits for being first to get to a city.

## Suggestions/Actions

For next playtest:

* Change turns/rounds to simple turns:
	* Place Tapestry cards immediatly after acquiring
	* Update spells