# Playtest #4

Fri 25 May 2018

Participants: self, AdamB, SverreR, JeffB

## Components

* 21x17 hex board
* 66 matrix cards
* 5 basic spell cards
* Token for each player
* 2 Tokens/player to mark target
* Tokens for marking locations controlled by player
* 6 spell cubes for each player
* Additional cubes to track spell charges

Note: playtesting with cubes instead of dice

## Setup

* Deck of matrix cards with top 3 revealed
* All spell cards in shared area

## Rules

Each turn, do each of the following:

* Remove a spell die from Matrix (if possible)
* Spend up to 3 Action Points (APs)

### Action Points

* 1 AP - move 2 spaces along road
* 1 AP - move 1 space into field
* 2 AP - move 1 space into forest
* 3 AP - move 1 space into mountain
* 2 AP - draw matrix card and add to matrix
* 1 AP - take 1 cubes and cast a spell
* 2 AP - take 2 cubes and cast spells
* 3 AP - take 6 cubes and cast spells

### Drawing and Adding to Matrix

Choose one of the available Matrix cards and add to
Matrix. And dice that are covered by the new card
are removed from the Matrix and added back into
your pool.

### Casting Spells

Take the specified number of dice from your pool and add them one at
a time to the Matrix.

After each die is place, if that die completes a
spell fragment pattern, then that spell fragment
is cast and its effect happens immediately.

If multiple spell patterns are matched, the player
must choose one.

### Control

Players can take control of one of the marked locations as follows:

If the space is unclaimed, then ending your turn on that space takes control.

If the space is controlled by another player, then their control can be removed by:

* Ending your turn on that space to remove 1 of the opponent's control markers.
* Causing damage to that space

If a space is already controlled by the player, then that player can add an additional control markers every turn they end on that space.

### Damage

Mages die when they take a single point of damage. They are sent to the Astral plane and must teleport back to the world. All targets (but not control markers) are lost.

## Spells

Available to all players.

### Target
```
X
```
Element: None

Move a target one space in any direction.

### Haste
```
@ X
```
Element: Air

Gain 2 AP for normal movement

### Fire Spurt
```
. X
@ .
```
Element: Fire

Attack target 1pt damage

### Entangle
```
. X
@ .
```
Element: Mountain

Defense: 1

Anchor target in location

### Shield/Protect
```
. X
@ .
```
Element: Water

Defense: 1/2

Persistant: Place charge marker when cast

Two charges protect agains 1 pt attack.

## Spells added during playtest

### Teleport
```
X @ .
. . X
```
Element: Air

Move self to target.

### Cancel
```
X . @ . X
```
Element: Water

Removes all targets from target location (including this one).

## Comments

Added Teleport Spell

Added option to remove 1 die from matrix for 1 AP.

Spells should be able to react to targets. E.g. to cancel the target.

Shield is too powerful. Changed to require 2 charges to block 1 attack.

[A] Damaging a location should remove 1 control marker.

When you die:

* Go to Astral plane
* Lose all targets (except target at Home to get back)
* Reset all dice

Spell: Spawn a new target relative to an existing one.

[S] Using "Knight's Move" pattern for spells - hard to rotate. Perhaps have the `@` in the corner:

```
@ . X  or  . . X  instead of  . @ X  and  . . X
X . .      X . @              X . .       X @ .
```

[A] Teleport should be a basic spell

[A] Basics: Target / Move / Attack / Teleport / Shield

Timer to end game:

* Score counter to track control. Score a point for each location controled at end of turn

Matrix Cards at end of game:

* [AB] 7
* [JB] 6
* [SR] 7
* [GK] 5

Sverre:

* NEG - Game doesn't converge
* POS - Battle with Jeff, able to run away strategically.
* NEG - tricky to get dice off matrix
* POS - liked being able to fireball control markers

Jeff:

* NEG - needs some random element
	* Change during game that forces you to change strategy
		* new spells
		* locations
	* Ideally change for everyone
		* changing spell configuration
* NEG - didn't converge
* POS - matrix spell - finding cool combos

Adam:

* NEG - 5 effects is not enough
* POS - enlightenment of microcode - works well
* NEG - Don't think control points work
	* Effectively a chip-taking game
	* Player goals should be orthogonal
		* Quests: control 2 spaces; do something at place X, ...
		* Once goals are accomplished, they are complete (no one can take them away)
* POS - game doesn't need dice - worked well without them

[J] Event: e..g, if at some point an NPC showed up: do you want to be near or far

[A] Quest deck, draw three at start of game

[J] Summon new thing that moves around - not predictable

[J] Randomness: have fireball roll a die for damage

[A] Physical move is too easy.

* Roads moving 2 is not needed
	* awkward having 1/2 movement point leftover
* 1=Road, 2=Field, 3=Forest, 4=Mountain?
* Make Haste = 4 movement AP

[J] Add hazards on the way to target locations - need to get past to get there

[A] Teleport to terrain type. Or Haste through terrain type.

[J] How would one build a Fly spell from these parts. Or is multiple Hastes the replacement?

[A] Damage terrain

[J] Spell: Enchant Forest to raise army of Ents

[A] Cast to extend target to matching terrain. E.g. move target down river

[J] Water movement. Flood spell to facilitate movement. Useful if you're the only one who can take advantage of it.

[A] Scenario: War - Destroy cities

* Last remaining city wins
* Or Team A wants to destroy; team B wants to save

Are roads even needed? Probably not.

What about using Japanese Elements: Air Fire Water Wood Metal

[A] Use same counters for casting spells and tracking charges. This encodes the cost of maintaining spells by affecting how many new spells can be cast.

How to do traps? Not easy to have surprises since all info is public.

Start game with set of hidden personal spells. Revealed when first cast.

Scenario: Death March. Kill city = 1pt; Kill mage = 1pt. cf. DOTA.

## Suggestions/Actions

For next playtest:

* Remove road movement rules
* Remove dice
* Use shared pool of tokens for casting and spell charges
* Add larger set of spells
* Add Quests
