# Playtest #13

Sat 25 May 2019

Participants: self, ChrisM

## Overview

* Testing:
	* Updated geomorphic boards - 5 marked locations
	* Single deck of unsorted spell cards
	* Starting with 2 mana
	* Gain more mana as you cast spells

## Components

* 2 (of 6) geomorphic map boards
* 10 (of 30) map location cards (5 for each map)
* 33 (double-sided) matrix cards
* 36 Spell Cards (rev4)
* Token for each player
* 13 Mana disks

## Setup

* Deck of double-sided tapestry cards with top card revealed
* Deck of spells
* Set of 4 random spells revealed.

## Rules

Each turn do 2 actions (can repeat):

* Cast spell (using as much mana as needed to complete a single spell)
* Move on map (3 movement points: Plains=1, Forest=2, Mountain=3)
	* Non-magical movement recovers 1 mana from Tapestry
* Take and meld Tapestry card

If you cast a spell in front of an Admission Counselor, they you acquire that spell.

## Scenario

You've been invited to test for admission to some Wizard Academy. You need to prove that you would be a worthwhile student to admit.

You must approach the Elemental Admission Counselors and cast spells. Once you do so you gain the spell into your repetoire (and gain VPs as well).

## Comments

Do we need an element card for each of the 4 revealed spell spots? When multiple slots are empty (because of doubles elsewhere) and a new card is drawn, it isn't obvious where the spell should go. Although the marker on the map can be used to figure it out.

Note: Counselor moves at the end of the turn. This allows you to gain 2 spells if you can "demo cast" them both on the same turn.

Start of game feels very slow.

* Having no spells means you can't cast any. Would be nice to have starter spells (again).
* Having little mana means that you need to save it for casting spells (rather than dropping tendrils on the board).

"Demo cast" of spell felt odd. Casting a spell for no effect (other than acquiring the spell).

Is it too easy to recover mana?

Chris

* Needs a pool of common spells that you can also demo. So that there's a reason to go to the counselor that is empty.
* Not enough tendrils on the board
* Easy to recover mana
* Perhaps change counselor to a "rumor zone" where you learn about the possibility of new spells.
	* But you need to demo the spell at a shared location. This would force more interaction.

Phil

* Competition to get spells
* If drafting spells, what if you don't get any good spells?

Adam

* Have a spell book of available spells
* Arrange all spells into tech-tree
	* Must have lower spell before you can attempt higher spell
	* Players can gain a spell, but it remaing hidden until it is revealed in play
* Allow players to pull a tendril from the board to get an extra action.

Death:

* Current thoughts have been along the lines of: Attacks cause death, and death has a penalty:
	* Re-spawn in new location (or "home" location)
	* Loss of tendrils
	* Loss of part of tapestry (how much?)
	* Loss of a spell (or two?)
	* Gain a "black mark" worth negative VP
* (from Adam) But Instead of having attack spells cause death (and figuring out exactly what the right punishment for death is), attacks spells could be divided into spells that cause specific "death symptoms". E.g., attack spells that:
	* force re-spawn
	* lose tendrils
	* lose spells
	* mess with tapestry
* This seems like is parallels the "micro-coding" of spells" by doing the same for death effects.

Spellbook feels good thematically. Should start (nearly) empty and be filled as the game progresses.

## Suggestions/Actions

For next playtest:

* Make sure that there are starting spells available
* Give players a spellbook that they can fill
	* All spellbooks start with 4 basic starter spells
	* + 3 random medium spells
* All remaining spells go into deck
